# Shipped 4 - Bootstrap a Project #

Bootstrapping loads the project files onto your local computer and initializes the project.



## Objectives ##
Completion time: 5 minutes

You will learn how to:

- Bootstrap a project




## Prerequisites ##

- *Managing Services* Learning Lab



## References ##
You can open these references in a separate tab and refer to them during this Lab.


- <a href="https://developer.cisco.com/site/shipped/" target="_blank">Shipped Getting Started Guide</a>  
- <a href="https://cisco.jiveon.com/docs/DOC-811787" target="_blank">High-level view of Shipped</a> 
- <a href="https://developer.cisco.com/site/shipped/" target="_blank">Shipped User Guide</a>  
- <a href="https://ciscoshipped.io/shipped/api-docs/build/index.html" target="_blank">Shipped API Reference</a>  
- <a href="https://developer.cisco.com/site/shipped/" target="_blank">Shipped CLI Reference</a>  


## What Bootstrapping Does

Bootstrapping a project  enables you to develop it locally.  When bootstrapping a project, Shipped:

- Creates a local directory for the project.
- Creates a subdirectory for each development and API service in the project.  This subdirectory includes a local GitHub repository with the service source code.
- Adds files supporting Shipped for services based on existing repositories.  Most of these are in .shipped subdirectories of the project and service directories.  Shipped also creates  .drone.yml and .drone.sec files to control the CI build.
- Verifies that  Git, Vagrant, and VirtualBox is installed and set up, and if not,  installs Vagrant or VirtualBox.
- Builds a VM containing a development and deployment environment for your project services.  The VM includes a directory synced with the service directory on your laptop, so changes that you make on your laptop are immediately available to the VM.


## To Bootstrap a Project

This process varies for each development platform. Follow the instructions given in the UI. You only need to do this once.

1. Install the Shipped CLI. 

1. From the **Create Your Project** form, copy and paste the text from the first box into a terminal window on your computer, then press **Enter**.

1. This command downloads the Shipped executable. Copy it to a directory in your path.
 
	**Note:** The command you are given is automatically generated for the OS on your local computer. To get the code to bootstrap  to another OS, click the appropriate icon at the bottom of the page.

1. After the first command has completed, from the Create Your Project form, copy and paste the text from the second box into a terminal window on your computer, then press **Enter**.

	Shipped creates the project directory in a subdirectory of the working directory of the terminal window.

	This process might take a few minutes.   Shipped automatically saves this output onto the shipped-cli.log file in your working directory.  You might be asked for a copy of this file when contacting Cisco for support.

	As bootstrap runs, the status appears in your browser.

	Bootstrap also writes output to your terminal window (in Windows).  

The bootstrap is now complete and running the application in a web server in the VM on your computer.


You can access your application from the URL provided. For example, localhost:30080.



To see if your project is bootstrapped correctly, see **Check Project**.

If your project is not bootstrapping correctly, see **Repair Project**



