# Shipped - Multi Tier Labs

Multi-tier Apps : An Application involve in dealing with database, rest api and front end technology. Shipped is capable enough for such kind of application.

We can easily and smoothly deploy multi tier app.

Before proceeding with this learning labs, We have to know the basics and how to use shipped in terms of build and run basic hello world program.

## Prerequisite

1. How to Create Project with Shipped.
2. How to Add services to project with Shipped.

## Multi tier app

Writing a small app which has UI that interact with golang based rest api and these service internally using postgress database for data transactions.

Application is very simple, we will be having two button Like Button and Reste Counter button, When we hit like button counter increment by 1 and rest button will reset counter to 0. and counter data will be stored in database.

<table>
<thead>
<th>
	Service Name
</th>
<th>
	Technology
</th>
<th>
Details
</th>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
	<td>
		<a href="https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vote-api" target="_blank">vote-api</a>
	</td>
	<td>
		golang
	</td>
	<td>
		$host_api_url/data<br/>
		/GET <br/>
		/POST
		Request Body {"count" : "1"}<br/>
		<a href="https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vote-api" target="_blank">more detail</a>
	</td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>		<a href="https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vote-ui" target="_blank">vote-ui</a></td>
	<td>express js</td>
	<td>Consume the above rest api into ui application. for 		<a href="https://github.com/CiscoCloud/vote-ui" target="_blank">more detail</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
	<td>vote-db</td>	
	<td>postgres</td>
	<td>Creating DB from datastore in shipped.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


### Steps involve

1. Fork Two Sample Projects from Cisco Cloud.
2. Create Project in Shipped.
3. Add two services  and one datapack service.<br/>
	a. vote-api (golang project fork from Cisco Cloud)<br/>
	b. vote-ui (express js project fork from Cisco Cloud)<br/>
	c. postgres (postgres database include it from datastore section).<br/>
4.	Build Project.
5. 	Create New Env
6. 	Deploy Postgres First to environment.
7.	Deploy vote-api before that we need to set some of env variable.
8.	Deploy vote-ui.
9.	Output

<table><tbody><tr>
<td align="right"><a href="2.md">Next</a></td>
</tr></tbody></table>
