# Shipped - Create Applications
<table><tr>
<td align="left"><a href="1.md">&lt; Prev (Shipped CLI)</a></td>
<td align="right"><a href="1.md"><a href="3.md">Next (Local Bootstrap) ></a></td>
</tr></table>

- <a href="#create">Create Application</a>
- <a href="#service">Create Service</a>
- <a href="3.md">Local Bootstrap</a>

<a name="API-token"></a>
## CLI Authorization
In order to use the Shipped CLI to create an application, you will need to:

1. Authorize Shipped to create a GitHub repository on your behalf
2. Obtain an API token to identify yourself to Shipped

You do this with the Shipped Web UI:

1. Access the UI at [http://ciscoshipped.io/](http://ciscoshipped.io/).
2. Click the `Sign up with GitHub` button.  If necessary, provide your GitHub userid and password and authorize Shipped to access your account.  This limited authorization allows Shipped to read your public data.
3. If this is the first time you've used the Shipped UI, Shipped pops up the "Create Your Application" form.  If Shipped pops up this form, enter any application name (for example, `first-app`) and press the Start Composing Button. If you do not see the form, just continue to the next step.
4. If Shipped needs additional to your GitHub account, it shows a red banner with the text "To add a new service, please click below to grant Shipped additional permissions from Github."  If you see this form, click the `Grant Access` button.  Shipped displays a GitHub form requesting you to authorize additional access to your GitHub account, including the right to create public and private repositories.  Click `Authorize Application` to allow this access.  If you do not see the red banner, just continue to the next step.
5. Click on your user name in the upper right corner of the form and select `My Profile`.  Shipped displays the profile form, including a large black button labeled `Show My User Token`.  Click this button and copy the API token it reveals.
6. Enter the command `shipped help -t xxx`, where xxx is the API token you copied in the previous step.   Shipped displays some overview help information and stores your API token for future reference.

You are now ready to use the Shipped CLI to create

<a name="Overview"></a>
## CLI Command and Help Overview
Shipped CLI commands typically take the form

    shipped command subcommand arguments

where command is the Shipped object you want to work with (such as "project" or "service"), subcommand is what you want to do with it (such as "create" or "list"), and arguments vary depending on the command and subcommand.  You can abbreviate command, subcommand, and arguments by truncation to the minimum length necessary for non-ambiguity.

To obtain help for a command or subcommand, either use the help command or include a `-h` or `--help` argument anywhere in the command.  For example, to obtain help for the `project create` command, type any of the following:

    shipped help project create
    shipped project create -h
    shipped proj cr --help

The last example also is an example of abbreviating a commands and subcommand.

Additional CLI documentation is available online at [https://developer.cisco.com/site/shipped/documents/cli-guide/](https://developer.cisco.com/site/shipped/documents/cli-guide/). 

<a name="create"></a>
## Create a Application
Shipped groups services into projects.  You can create a project by providing its name and and an optional description: 

    shipped project create name=Demo desc="A Demo Application"

Shipped shows successful completion by echoing the project name and description.

    Changed to new project directory c:\shipped\Demo
    Application  Description
    -------  -----------
    Demo	 A Demo Application



<a name="service"></a>
## Create a Service
A service is an independently deployable component of a project.  Most services are based on a buildpack that includes starter code for the service.  You can list buildpacks with the command:

    shipped buildpack list

Shipped shows the available buildpacks:

    BuildPack
    ---------
    golang
    Cisco Tropo WebAPI
    CiscoCMX API
    Cisco APICEM
    ExpressJS
    Java Spring Boot
    Python
    Cisco Spark
    Dropwizard
    Grunt.JS
    Ruby on Rails
    PHP


To create a service, provide the name of the project you just created, the name of the buildpack you want to use, and the name of the new service.  For example, to create a service using the Go language, use the command:

    shipped services create demo golang name="goservice"

Once again, Shipped shows successful completion by echoing service information.

    Service    BuildPack  Application
    -------    ---------  -------
    goservice  golang     Demo

When you create a service, Shipped automatically creates a GitHub repository for its source code and sets up a CI build so that any push you make to the repository automatically causes a build.  We'll see how to use these in subsequent sections.
<table><tr>
<td align="left"><a href="1.md">&lt; Prev (Shipped CLI)</a></td>
<td align="right"><a href="1.md"><a href="3.md">Next (Local Bootstrap) ></a></td>
</tr></table>
        
