# Shipped - Commit and Build

## Commit 
Bootstrapping a project creates a local Git repository for each of its services that is linked to the remote GitHub repository that Shipped created when you created the service.  The local repository is in a directory on your local machine and the remote repository is in the cloud.  Shipped also sets up a CI build so that any push to the remote GitHub repository automatically starts a build.

Bootstrap does not change the remote repository, which is empty for a new service.  It does add files to the local repository that make it ahead of the remote repository.  You can synchronize the local and remote repositories and start a build by committing the changes and pushing them to the remote repository.

You can commit and push either with standard Git commands or with the `shipped local commit` command.  You must issue standard Git commands from the service directory, so the commit and push operation begins with changing directories:

    cd demo
    cd goservice
    git commit --allow-empty -m "First Commit"
    git push origin master

Alternatively, you can use the `shipped local commit` command, which can be issued from either the project or the service directory:

    cd democd go
    shipped local commit m="First Commit"

Either command shows output directly from Git:

    [master c868a70] First Commit

    Counting objects: 15, done.
    Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
    Compressing objects: 100% (13/13), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (15/15), 2.29 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 15 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To https://github.com/tooda02/goservice
    * [new branch]      master -> master

<a name="builds"></a>
## Builds
Pushing change to the remote GitHub repository automatically starts a build, which takes a few minutes to complete.  You can use the `build get` command to watch the build and display its logs on completion:

    shipped build get --latest --logs --watch 10

In this command, the `--latest` argument tells the CLI to get the most recent build; `--logs` tells it to display logs upon completion; and `--watch 10` tells it to wait up to 10 minutes for build completion.  Shipped responds with the message:

    Watching for build 1 completion....

and appends a dot to it every 15 seconds to let you know it's still watching.   When the build completes, Shipped displays its logs and the status of the build:

    Logs from build 2ac5d66b-f128-11e5-9b2a-0242ac110112:
    [info] Pulling image plugins/drone-git:latest
    Drone Git Plugin built from 8be7aa9
    $ git init
    Initialized empty Git repository in /drone/src/github.com/tooda02/goservice/.git/
    $ git remote add origin https://github.com/tooda02/goservice.git
    $ git fetch --no-tags --depth=50 origin +refs/heads/master:
    From https://github.com/tooda02/goservice
    . . .
    73e8d4f6bf84: Pushed
    c868a7026d5392eb700f9dfba864ca2ed12f06fa: digest: sha256:c231ead0343845ed39b735bdfa2cf4260640507c66da99ff361d0a23864fb01c size: 37635
    Build  Timestamp                      Status   CommitID
    -----  ---------                      ------   --------
    1      2016-03-23 18:56:26 +0000 UTC  success  c868a7026d5392eb700f9dfba864ca2ed12f06fa


 