# Shipped - Deploy Build

## Create Environment
Deploying a build means making its service available in the cloud.  The first step is to create an environment, a deployable set of configurations. For example, you may want to create "Production" and "Test" environments for a service with different scaling requirements and resource allocation.

To create an environment, provide the project name and the name for the new environment, along with an optional description:

    shipped env create Demo Name="DemoEnv" Description="A demo environment"

As usual, Shipped acknowledges successful creation by echoing details of the new environment:

    Name     Project  Description
    ----     -------  -----------
    DemoEnv  Demo     A demo environment

## Deployment
Once an environment is created, you can deploy a build to it with the `build deploy` command:

    shipped build deploy Demo goservice DemoEnv --latest

You provide the project and service to deploy, along with the name of the environment to deploy it to.  Shipped responds with the status of the released build:

    Setting Demo:goservice default releaseId(9cccc726-f06c-11e5-bcae-0242ac110116)
    EnvName  ReleaseID                             ProjectName  ServiceName  Status  ErrorMsg  DeployedURL                                                ErrorMsg
    -------  ---------                             -----------  -----------  ------  --------  -----------                                                --------
    DemoEnv  9cccc726-f06c-11e5-bcae-0242ac110116  Demo         goservice                      http://demoenv--demo--goservice--d3149c.shipped-cisco.com

Status is blank in the response, indicate that the deployment is in progress.

## Release Status
A deployed build is called a release.  Deployment takes a couple of minutes.  You can use the `release get` command to watch for completion of deployment, similarly to how you watched for build completion with the `build get` command in the <a href="4.md#builds">previous step</a>:

    shipped release get Demo DemoEnv --watch 5

Shipped responds with the message:

    Watching for release deployment.

and appends a dot every fifteen seconds to show you it's still watching.  Once the release is deployed, Shipped shows you its status:


    EnvName  ProjectName  ServiceName  Status   DeployedURL                                                ErrorMsg

    -------  -----------  -----------  ------   -----------                                                --------

    DemoEnv  Demo         goservice    Success  http://demoenv--demo--goservice--d3149c.shipped-cisco.com

The DeployedURL column shows the URL of the service in the cloud.  Copy and paste it into a browser window to see the service's web output.  This is identical to that displayed by the <a href="3.md#verify">localhost URL</a> you used after bootstrap.  The difference is that a deployed build is available from anywhere, not just your local machine.
