# Shipped - Modify Code,Commit and Rebuild
<table><tr>
<td align="left"><a href="5.md">&lt; Prev (Local Bootstrap)</a></td>
<td align="right"><a href="1.md">Beginning (Shipped CLI) ></a></td>
</tr></table> 
 

## Modify Service and Reload
During bootstrap, Shipped creates both a local repository containing a service's source code and a VM for building and running the service.  The local directory containing the source code is shared with the VM, so that any changes you make there are available to the VM.  This makes it easy to build and test your changes.

To see this, change to the service directory and edit file main.go.  Look for the line containing the string "Hello from Cisco Shipped!" and change "Cisco Shipped" to your own name.  Then issue the command:

    shipped local reload Demo goservice

Shipped stops the service, rebuilds it, and restarts it, showing progress with a series of messages:

    Halt for service goservice:
    demo_goservice_1
    Build for service goservice:
    Building goservice
    Step 1 : FROM golang:1.5
    ---> 2e1c8fd5ddc3
    Step 2 : EXPOSE 8888
    ---> Running in 5e63a2cb8998
    ---> 90dc7c7cfda7
    Removing intermediate container 5e63a2cb8998
    Step 3 : WORKDIR /go/src/app
    ---> Running in c150be37547c
    ---> e6bb444c4287
    Removing intermediate container c150be37547c
    Step 4 : COPY . /go/src/app
    ---> b7e799b6d67c
    Removing intermediate container f3d84c301b7d
    Step 5 : RUN chmod a+x .shipped/build .shipped/run .shipped/test
    ---> Running in 461a88c3d2f3
    ---> 2454b446bd83
    Removing intermediate container 461a88c3d2f3
    Step 6 : RUN .shipped/build
    ---> Running in d48aeb8122c5
    ---> b51a427b5014
    Removing intermediate container d48aeb8122c5
    Step 7 : CMD .shipped/run
    ---> Running in 032f0ba6592a
    ---> 4e8933fb1f30
    Removing intermediate container 032f0ba6592a
    Successfully built 4e8933fb1f30
    Start VM for service goservice:
    Recreating demo_goservice_1
    1 service is running and is available at the web address below
    ------------  ------------  --------------    ------                 -------------------
    Service Name  Container ID  Container Name    Status                 Service Web Address
    ------------  ------------  --------------    ------                 -------------------
    goservice     5fd7068061c6  demo_goservice_1  Up Less than a second  http://localhost:38891

Like bootstrap, reload output ends with a service status report.  Copy and paste the URL shown under Service Web Address into a browser to verify the updated service reflects your changes.

## Commit 
Bootstrapping a project creates a local Git repository for each of its services that is linked to the remote GitHub repository that Shipped created when you created the service.  The local repository is in a directory on your local machine and the remote repository is in the cloud.  When you created the service, Shipped set up a CI build so that any push to the remote GitHub repository automatically starts a build.

You can synchronize the local and remote repositories and start a build by committing the changes and pushing them to the remote repository.

You can commit and push either with standard Git commands or with the `shipped local commit` command.  You must issue standard Git commands from the service directory, so the commit and push operation begins with changing directories:

    cd demo
    cd goservice
    git commit --allow-empty -m "Local service updates"
    git push origin master

Alternatively, you can use the `shipped local commit` command, which can be issued from either the project or the service directory:

    cd democd go
    shipped local commit m="Local service updates"

Either command shows output directly from Git:

    [master c868a70] First Commit

    Counting objects: 15, done.
    Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
    Compressing objects: 100% (13/13), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (15/15), 2.29 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 15 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To https://github.com/tooda02/goservice
    * [new branch]      master -> master

## Redeploying
Once you're satisfied with the changed service, you can redeploy it to the cloud.  To do so, repeat the steps in the previous sections: 

- <a href="3.md">Builds</a>
- <a href="4.md">Deploy Build</a>

<table><tr>
<td align="left"><a href="5.md">&lt; Prev (Local Bootstrap)</a></td>
<td align="right"><a href="1.md">Beginning (Shipped CLI) ></a></td>
</tr></table>
