# Shipped 8 - Deploying a Project

Projects are deploying using Deploy Targets. Deploy targets are the cloud or on-premise clusters where you provision your Shipped services. Cisco runs public targets, but you can  add your own public or private targets.

A release is a build deployed to a specific environment for a service.

## Objectives
Completion time: 5 minutes

You will learn how to:

- Deploy a project you have created
- Manage Releases


## Prerequisites

- *Managing Environments* Learning Lab




## References
You can open these references in a separate tab and refer to them during this Lab.


- <a href="https://developer.cisco.com/site/shipped/" target="_blank">Shipped Getting Started Guide</a>  
- <a href="https://cisco.jiveon.com/docs/DOC-811787" target="_blank">High-level view of Shipped</a> 
- <a href="https://developer.cisco.com/site/shipped/" target="_blank">Shipped User Guide</a>  
- <a href="https://ciscoshipped.io/shipped/api-docs/build/index.html" target="_blank">Shipped API Reference</a>  
- <a href="https://developer.cisco.com/site/shipped/" target="_blank">Shipped CLI Reference</a>  



## Deploy a Project using the UI

1. From the Deploy tab, select the environment you want to deploy, then click **Deploy Build**.

	The status window shows up, letting you know how the deployment is progressing. This might take a few minutes.

2. If successful, you can deploy your build to an environment. See *Managing Environments*.

	If not successful, an error message appears telling you what to do next.





## Deploy a Project using the API

To deploy a project, create a Deploy Target config file for an environment.

For example,

	curl 'https://api.ciscoshipped.io/projects/34a35726-66e9-11e5-99df-0242ac110120/deploy_targets' -d 
	'{ "deployed_url_template": "http://%s.my-domain.com", "name": "My Datacenter", "opts": {url: "https://my-datacenter.com/marathon/", http_auth: {"user": "<user>", "pass": "<pass>"}, "projectid": "31f03bc9-0314-11e5-b9c3-6c4008ad584b", "type": "marathon" }'

HTTP request:

	POST https://api.ciscoshipped.io/projects/<projectID>/deploy_targets


## Deploy a Project using the CLI

Within the Shipped Console:

To deploy a project, use *deploy* and provide the project, service, commit, and environment IDs.

Optional arguments are:

- *ConfigD*  - ConfigID to be deployed.
- *ContainerCount* - Number of service Docker containers to deploy.
- *ContainerCPU*  - Number of vCPUs to allocate per container.
- *ContainerPort*  - Port used to access the app inside the container and that should be exposed outside the container.
- *RAM* -  RAM in MB to be allocated for container.
- *DeployedURL* -  Where the service is or would be running
- *DeployImage*  - The Docker deployed image
- *DeploymentId* -  Recommended default set by Shipped.
- *EnvVariables*  - Set additional configuration variables. These are set as env variable on Docker instances.
- *ErrorMsg*  - Populated if there was a problem.  
- *HealthCheckMaxFailures* -  Health check failure before marking service as down, default by buildpack.
- *HealthCheckPath*  - Health check endpoint URL, default by buildpack.
- *HealthCheckProtocol* -  Health check protocol, default by buildpack.
- *MarathonAppID* -  The marathon identifier for the app
- *RepoURL* -  The GitHub repo for the app
- *ServiceType*  - the App or RepoApp
- *ServiceSnapshotID*  - Multiple services deployed from a single deploy all have the same snapshotID. Useful for rollback.


<!-- inserted so the following renders correctly -->


	shipped build deploy <projectId> <serviceId> <commitId> <environmentId>


*-or-*

	shipped build deploy 183 271 3c07b82b96a5751cdd930f62aeb5f47cdbba02ed %Staging

If the default buildID and commitID have been set, you can shorten the deploy command.

	shipped build deploy 183 271


## Retrieve a list of Builds

You can get a list of buildsIDs to choose from and use in the previous example. If available, the commitIDs are shown.

	shipped build get 




## Set the default buildID and commitID

Set the default build and commit IDs to be automatically used in subsequent calls. This means you can omit them in future commands.

	shipped build set $ $ 183

If successful, **OK** is returned.


