# Shipped 101: Introduction to Shipped #

In this Learning Lab you will learn the basics of using Shipped to create and deploy your first clould based project.


**Access to a Macbook Pro running OSX**
* These samples were written and validated on a Macbook Pro running OSX. You don't necessarily need to be running OSX but do need to be running a OS that is compatible with Vagrant, Docker, and Git.   

## Objective ##

Completion Time: 30 minutes

* Introduce ourselves to the underlying technologies
* Create, Test, and Submit our fist Shipped Project
* Summarize what we have learned, and talk about what's next

## Introducing Shipped ##

Shipped is a Cisco Development Portal which provides us with an intergrated development environment for creating, building, testing, and deploying into the Cisco Clould in a continuous integration environment. 

## Prerequisites ##


While it isn't necessary, for you of those who want to know a bit more about the underlying techonologies, we recommend familarizing yourself with them.

###Github###

Shipped supports GitHub Repositories for source code version control. [GitHub](https://help.github.com/) offers distributed revision control and source code management. Github provides a web-based graphical interface with desktop and mobile integration. Github offers both private and public repositories. 

###Docker###
Shipped provides the means to quickly create custom [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/) Containers. Docker is an open platform for developers and sysadmins to build, ship, and run distributed applications. Docker uses resource isolation features of the Linux kernel such as cgroups and kernel namespaces to allow independent "containers" to run within a single Linux instance, avoiding the overhead of starting and maintaining virtual machines.

###VirtualBox###
Shipped leverages Oracle VM [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) Hypervisor to host the Docker Containers. VirtualBox may be installed on an existing host operating system; it can create and manage guest virtual machines, each with a guest operating system and its own virtual environment. Many Docker Containers can be hosted within one Virtual Machine in Virtual Box. 

###Vagrant###
Shipped utilizes [Vagrant](https://docs.vagrantup.com/v2/) to help manage the Virtual Machine which hosts the Docker Contaiers. Vagrant creates and configures virtual development environments. Vagrant utilizes a single file called Vagrantfile to describe the type of machine you want, the software that needs to be configuted, and machine access details such as port mapping, etc.  


## Benefits Shipped brings to the table

###Speed - Reduce your deployment time from hours to seconds
* Rapid application deployment – containers include the minimal runtime requirements of the application, reducing their size and allowing them to be deployed quickly.
* You can create or destroy containers quickly and easily. Virtual Machines require full installations and require more computing resources to execute.
* Provide developers with real time deployment for development purposes
*  Shorten the time of development by offload development processes onto our continuous delivery platform

###Portability - Develop once and deploy anywhere
* An application and all its dependencies can be bundled into a single container that is independent from the host version of Linux kernel, platform distribution, or deployment model. This container can be transfered to another machine that runs Docker, and executed there without compatibility issues.
* Shorten development life cycle and get your features to market 
* Short step from development to production
* Provides efficiencies for HA (high availablity) scenarios

###Scalability - Scale at your pace om your timeline
* Automates the provisioning of specific infrastructure resources for applications- when and where they are required.
* Scale your services to ensure the level of performance that your customers expect
* Size your delivery / deployment based on what you need and when / where  you need.
* Multi-zone redundancy / alignment

###Simplicity - Stream lined design for quick and easy development
* Ease your developers onboarding
* Cmd line and GUI for easy of use CLI
* Easily look at projects, deployments, projects, etc….
* Real time status of development in gui
* Full cmd line interface for development


###Cost Efficiency
* Containers are lightweight, therefore, more containers than virtual machines can run simultaneously on a host machine.
* Drive down development,
* Drive down deployment, 
* Drive down maintenance / support costs,

###Getting started with Shipped

You can access Shipped UI Development Portal [here](http://ciscocloud.github.io/shipped/dist/#).