## Shipped - Update a Service

After making changes to the repository, you can update service information, such as name or description.




## Update the Service using the UI

1. Select your project.

	The Compose Your Project page opens.

2. Select the **Add an existing repository** tab.

	The list of services appear.

3. Click the name of a service, then change it to what you want.

	The service is now updated.




## Update the Service using the API

To update a service and return the updated service, specify the project ID, then use *PUT*.

For example,

	curl -X PUT 'https://api.ciscoshipped.io/projects/19d87036-532a-11e5-913f-0242ac1100c4/services/4455979b-66e9-11e5-99e0-0242ac110120' -d '{"name": "rails2"}'

HTTP request:

	PUT https://api.ciscoshipped.io/projects/<projectID>/services/<SERVICE_ID>




## Update the Service using the CLI

Within the Shipped Console:

To update a service, use *update* with the service and project IDs. Or you can  navigate to the project directory to avoid specifying the project ID.

Optional arguments are:

- *BuildCommand* - The shell command to build the service.
- *ContainerPort* - The container port used by Docker for this service.
- *DefaultRAM* - The default RAM allocation for new environments for this service in Marathon.
- *EnvVariables* -  One or more environment variables to set in the service container.  Specify as a comma-separated list in the form env="name1:var1,name2:var2".
- *ImageSource* - A URL for an image used by this service. 
- *Name* - The new name of the service.
- *RunCommand* - The shell command to run the service.
- *TestCommand* - The shell command to run tests on the service.


<!-- inserted so the following renders correctly -->

	service update <projectId> <serviceId>

*-or-*

	svc update 183d5961-71f5-11e5-b058-0242ac110238 271c696b-7360-11e5-9240-0242ac11026c name=MyService

*-or-*   

	demo@ubuntu:~/shipped/hello-world/hello-world-cmx $ shipped svc update -o "Name,ServiceID,DefaultRAM"

